THE FIRST BOOK OF MOSES
CALLED
GENESIS
CHAPTER 1

God creates this earth and its heaven and all forms of life in six days—The creative acts of each day are described—God creates man, both male and female, in His own image—Man is given dominion over all things and is commanded to multiply and fill the earth.

1 In the abeginning bGod ccreated the dheaven and the eearth.

2 And the earth was without aform, and void; and bdarkness was upon the face of the deep. And the cSpirit of God dmoved upon the face of the waters.

3 And God asaid, Let there be blight: and there was light.

4 And God saw the light, that it was agood: and God divided the light from the darkness.

5 And God called the light aDay, and the bdarkness he called Night. And the evening and the morning were the cfirst dday.

6 ¶ And God said, Let there be a afirmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters.

7 And God made the firmament, and divided the awaters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament: and it was so.

8 And God called the firmament aHeaven. And the evening and the morning were the second bday.

9 ¶ And God said, Let the awaters under the heaven be gathered together unto bone place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so.

10 And God called the dry land aEarth; and the gathering together of the waters called he Seas: and God saw that it was good.

11 And God said, Let the earth bring forth agrass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself, upon the earth: and it was so.

12 And the earth abrought forth grass, and herb yielding seed after his kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself, after his bkind: and God saw that it was good.

13 And the evening and the morning were the third day.

14 ¶ And God said, Let there be alights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for bsigns, and for cseasons, and for days, and years:

15 And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth: and it was so.

16 And God made two great lights; the agreater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the bstars also.

17 And God set them in the afirmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth,

18 And to rule over the aday and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness: and God saw that it was good.

19 And the evening and the morning were the fourth day.

20 And God said, Let the awaters bbring forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life, and cfowl that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven.

21 And God created agreat whales, and every living creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that it was good.

22 And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and amultiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.

23 And the evening and the morning were the fifth day.

24 ¶ And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his akind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his kind: and it was so.

25 And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind: and God saw that it was good.

26 ¶ And God said, Let aus bmake cman in our dimage, after our elikeness: and let them have fdominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.

27 So God created man in his own aimage, in the image of God created he him; male and bfemale created he them.

28 And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be afruitful, and bmultiply, and creplenish the dearth, and subdue it: and have edominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.

29 ¶ And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for ameat.

30 And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth, wherein there is life, I have given every green herb for ameat: and it was so.

31 And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it was very agood. And the evening and the morning were the bsixth day.
